Finished interrupts chapter (#56)
rust-embedded/discovery-mb2: mdbook/src/15-interrupts/README.md

  than the normal function return instruction.

* Since the function finishes in a non-standard way, the compiler will understand not to allow
  directly calling the ISR from normal code.

There are two steps to configure the interrupt. First, the GPIOTE must be set up to generate an
interrupt when the pin connected to Button A goes from high to low voltage. Second, the NVIC must be
configured to allow the interrupt. Order matters a bit: doing things in the "wrong" order may
generate an interrupt before you are ready to handle it.

**Note** As with most microcontrollers, there is a lot of flexibility in when the GPIOTE can generate an interrupt. Interrupts can be generated on low-to-high pin transition, high-to-low (as here), any change ("edge"), when low, or when high. On the nRF52833, interrupts generate an event that must be manually cleared in the ISR to ensure that the ISR is not called a second time for the same interrupt. Other microcontrollers may work a little differently — you should read Rust crate and microcontroller documentation to understand the details on a different board.

> When you push the A Button, you will see an "ouch" message and then a panic. Why does the interrupt handler call `panic!()`? Try commenting the `panic!()` call out and see what happens when you push the button. You will see "ouch" messages scroll off the screen. The NVIC records when an interrupt has been issued: that "event" is kept until it is explicitly cleared by the running program. Without the `panic!()`, when the interrupt handler returns the NVIC will (in this case) re-enable the interrupt, notice that there is still an interrupt event pending, and run the handler again. This will continue forever: each time the interrupt handler returns it will be called again. In the next section we will see how to clear the interrupt indication from within the interrupt handler.

Reviewer: Last sentence: "In the next section...": Technically, how to do this shows up in section 15.2 currently and not 15.1. Maybe replace with "Soon" to keep it in a non-section-number-referring way?

Seeing as our microcontroller only has a single CPU core, it cannot do anything else while it
waits. On top of that, a CPU core continuously polling a peripheral wastes power, and in a lot of
applications, we can't have that. Can we do better?

Luckily, we can. While our little microcontroller can't compute things in parallel, it can easily
switch between different tasks during execution, responding to events from the outside world. This
switching is done using a feature called "interrupts"!

Interrupts are aptly named: they allow peripherals to actually interrupt the core program execution
at any point in time. On our MB2's nRF52833, peripherals are connected to the core's Nested Vectored
Interrupt Controller (NVIC). The NVIC can stop the CPU in its tracks, instruct it to go do something
else, and once that's done, get the CPU back to what it was doing before it was interrupted. We'll
cover the Nested and Vectored parts of the interrupt controller later: let's first focus on how the
core switches tasks.

### Handling Interrupts

Computation is always contextual: the core always needs memory to load inputs and store outputs to.

> Our microcontroller is of what's known as a load-store-architecture, and as such the core does not

Reviewer 2: The explanation of a load-store-architecture is a bit weird. Instead of explaining what it doesn't do confusingly using the words store and load, I'd turn it around and say: it's a load and store architecture because typically the data needs to be loaded from memory into registers before doing computation and store the results back to memory afterwards. I also wouldn't refer to registers as "scratch pad memory" but rather something like in-core storage locations.

somewhere, so that the new task can use them as their own scratchpad memory.  Sure enough, that is
exactly the first thing the core does in response to an interrupt request: it stops what it's doing
immediately and stores the contents of the CPU registers on the stack.

The next step is actually jumping to the code that should be run in response to an interrupt.
Interrupt Service Routines (ISRs), often referred to as interrupt handlers, are special functions in
your application code that get called by the core in response to specific interrupts. An ISR
function "returns" using a special return-from-interrupt machine instruction that causes the CPU to
restore the CPU registers and jump back to where it was before the ISR was called.

## Poke The MB2

Let's define an ISR and configure an interrupt to "poke" the MB2 when Button A is pressed
(`examples/poke.rs`). The board will respond by saying "ouch" and panicking.

```rust
{{#include examples/poke.rs}}
```

The ISR handler function is "special". The name `GPIOTE` is required here, and the function must be
decorated with `#[interrupt]` so that it returns using a return-from-interrupt instruction rather

> than the normal way. The function may not take arguments and must return `()`.

Reviewer 2: I'm kind of missing the important detail here that this #[interrupt] does three things (not just one):

1. It rewrites the function to make be an interrupt handler (including the return from interrupt)
2. It renames the function to be not callable from the Rust program
3. It adds it to the interrupt table of the program so the processor knows which function to execute

There are two steps to configure the interrupt. First, the GPIOTE must be set up to generate an

> interrupt when the wire connect to Button A goes from high to low voltage. Second, the NVIC must be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interrupt when the pin connected to Button A goes from high to low voltage. Second, the NVIC must be
```

configured to allow the interrupt. Order matters a bit: doing things in the "wrong" order may
generate a bogus interrupt before you are ready to handle it.

When you push the A Button, you will see an "ouch" message and then a panic. Why does the interrupt
handler call `panic!()`? Try commenting the `panic!()` call out and see what happens when you push

> the button. You will see "ouch" messages scroll off the screen. The GPIOTE records when an interrupt

Author: Yes. I will add a few sentences explaining that other microcontrollers and peripherals may work differently. Your summary is great.

> the button. You will see "ouch" messages scroll off the screen. The GPIOTE records when an interrupt

Author: Upon further reading we probably need to talk about per-port and per-pin (channel) interrupts on the nRF52833. It looks like the nRF is more configurable than I thought: can allow edge, rising-edge, falling-edge, high and low triggers. It looks like edge-triggered interrupts are triggered once per transition, but level-triggered interrupts will run continuously until the latch is reset. In both cases it is advisable (and probably necessary) to clear the interrupt event.

It's an interesting question how much of this the HAL does (and should) support. I'll investigate.

has been issued, and that record is kept until it is explicitly cleared by the running
program. Without the `panic!()`, when the interrupt handler returns the GPIOTE will re-enable the
interrupt, notice that an interrupt has been issued and not cleared, and run the handler again. This
will continue forever: each time the interrupt handler returns it will be called again. In the next
section we will see how to clear the interrupt indication from within the interrupt handler.

You may define ISRs for many different interrupt sources: when I2C is ready, when a timer expires,
and on and on. Inside an ISR you can do pretty much anything you want, but it's good practice to
keep the interrupt handlers short and quick.

When the ISR function returns (using a magic instruction), the CPU looks to see if interrupts have

> happened that need to be handled, and if so calls one of the handlers (according to a priority order

Reviewer 2: No, it calls the specific handler assigned to each interrupt.

Author: Not quite getting the distinction here. I'll clean up the text to be clearer about what happens. Maybe something like this?

Another interrupt may have happened while the current interrupt is being processed. These interrupts will "pend": the CPU will keep track of which interrupts have not yet been handled. When the current ISR function returns, the CPU will call the ISR handler for the highest-priority pending interrupt.

Author: Naw, that's not enough. I will add a paragraph about interrupt priority, and indicate here that an interrupt handler can itself be interrupted (I think?) by a higher-priority interrupt. If a lower-priority interrupt occurs it will pend. I think? Interrupts are hard.

Maybe we should include an example showing interrupt priorities in action?

Reviewer 2: My point is: When you declare an interrupt handler in Rust via the `#[interrupt]` macro (as mentioned in another comment), the macro creates a special "anonymous" function which is entered into .interrupt table of the linked program. Each interrupt has exactly one entry per available interrupt, you can re-use one interrupt handler for multiple (and figure out in the interrupt handler which interrupt was actually pended) but you can't have multiple interrupt handler entry points per interrupt.

Indeed the function of the NVIC (hence the N for nested) is to call the interrupt handlers per assigned priority and preempt or interrupt execution if higher priority interrupts are pending (and resume execution accordingly once their interrupt handler has finished). To avoid that, and e.g. access shared ressources, one can disable interrupts temporarily (for this core only) which is called a "critical section" or modify the priorities of the interrupts, which is a can of worms, though. 😉
